+++
date = '2025-08-10T19:21:56-04:00'
draft = true
title = 'Why I Founded Fairese'
category = ['Blog']
tags = ["company", "foundation"]
summary = "Read about the motivations that lead to the creation of Fairese, a software development house from the Andes."
featured_image = "../assets/images/pages/fairese-banner-large copy.png"
keywords = ["fairese", "andy ibanez"]
author = "Andy Ibanez"
+++

Back then in 2017, when I was still in the process of finishing college, I had but one dream: To create a software development company. I was starting to become more involved in the iOS Developers community in Twitter, and I always thought, will I ever be able to build cool things like these people? They are running podcasts, launching products, and they have full control over both their creative and technical processes.

The iOS Developers community was a big inspiration for me. But I didn't even know where to start, and in my mind, I had a huge limitation: I was from Bolivia, and it is not easy to make money from Bolivia because it's hard to move money into the country. This is why I founded the company in the USA, and carry the slogan, iOS expertise from the Andes. I was trying to make a living out of freelancing iOS development while in college, and I got a lot of clients in the 2010's.

I had already been blogging on my personal website, [andyibanez.com](https://www.andyibanez.com) with not much consistency, and I certainly wasn't monetizing. There were entire years I didn't write anything, and there were years I published a blog post or two. I finally finished all my college studies sans getting my degree in 2018, and I was ready to try something new. As I was writing my graduation thesis throughout 2018 and 2019, I had plenty of free time. In 2019, I hadn't finished my thesis yet, and I didn't feel like finishing, so I started looking for a job. As I was doing that, I relaunched my personal blog with the idea of publishing weekly, and I kept that promise for many years until I launched [my book](https://swiftasyncbook.com) in 2022. I got my first job at Banco Nacional de Bolivia in September 2019, and while the job was okay and I had a few opportunities to grow professionally within the company, I knew that, eventually, I'd like to do my own thing, but there was a problem: I had no idea what to do, how to run my company, or how to begin creating one.

**Note**: To the people on the back yelling why did I finish my college studies in 2018 when I am 33 in 2025... Simply put, my focus was somewhere else. I was in the mood of trying to build apps, trying to do something interesting to fit into the community I so much admired. My college life is marked by constant failures, retaken exams, and a growth in technical skills because I didn't want to do anything else. I was also freelancing and getting clients, which didn't allow me (or rather, I didn't want to) focus in my studies.

So while my heart was already set in becoming an independent developer and a company owner, I always knew and accepted that I didnt' have enough professional experience yet. I didn't know how companies ran, I was faced with multiple logistics issues, including how, exactly, do I get paid and move my money to Bolivia? So it was important that before I create my company, I gather more experience and try to see how companies in the USA worked so I could emulate part of their processes and adapt them to mine.

In 2021, I left my job at Banco Nacional de Bolivia and I started working international clients. Most of my client work was done through a company called [BlueTrail Software](https://www.bluetrail.software), a US-based company founded by a Mexican woman and her French husband, serving as CEO and President respectively. BlueTrail Software connected me to many interesting clients, I was finally able to use English as a second language beyong reading and posting on Twitter or Reddit, and I started speaking it. My first client was [Sharetec](https://sharetec.com), a company that builds and sells banking software to multiple credit unions in the USA. Sharetec was a perfect fit for me because I was already familiar with the banking world. It was interesting to compare and contrast how banking works in the USA compared to Bolivia, and I learned a lot from there. I worked with many interesting clients while at BlueTrail Software, including but not limited to [Cartier](https://www.cartier.com/en-us/home), [Renault](https://www.cartier.com/en-us/home), [Dacia](https://www.renaultgroup.com/en/our-brands/dacia) (another Renault Brand), and [Castle Funds](https://castlefunds.com). Through my tenure, I worked as a developer, team lead, and a project manager. The experience I earned at BlueTrail Software gave important insights into how software development companies work.

BlueTrail Software gave me a lot important tools to try to create my own company, but I wasn't feeling confident quite yet. While my experience at BlueTrail covered many indestries, I was still feeling a little bit green, and I felt I needed to grow my horizontal knowledge more. I have always had confidence in my programming skills, but I knew I needed to work on my management skills if I wanted to create a successful company.

In 2025, I left my job at BlueTrail Software and expanded my skills to aid the aircraft maintenace industry by joining [TRAX Aero](https://www.trax.aero). Trax is a company that sells a suite of iPad apps to airlines and maintenace companies. Their product range include apps for performing quick maintenance, pilot logging, aircraft part stock management, and more. I had to take this opportunity because aviation is an industry I have always been interested in, but I have no experience on it, and I never thought I'd get a chance to use my skills there. So when [CodeRoad](https://coderoad.com) offered me the Tech Lead position for working with their client, Trax, I knew I couldn't turn it down, and I have been involved with the aircraft maintenance industry since April 2025.

The experience I obtained at Trax gave me the final tools to finally start working on my dream of founding a real company. Hopefully a company where I can continue helping companies, regardless of if they want new software, maintain their software, or anything in between, and a company whose size does not matter. As I have worked with companies of all sizes, I was able to understand the internal logistics of how they operate, from how the employee hiring process works, to how finances operate, to how logistics like paying payrolls work. With the skills I obtained thanks to BlueTrail Software and Coderoad, I knew I had it all to finally create my own company. And to make it even better, the people I met along the way are contacts who can help me provide wonderful software to my clients.

And I did. In July 2025, I started the process of creating Fairese LLC, setting up the company in Wyoming, taking care of a lot of paperwork, learning about taxes (oof), setting up banking, and even, thanks to my technical skills, this very website you are reading this blogpost on. I was able to bootstrap a lot of this alone, but I do not want to sound I am a lone wolk - once again, the people I met during my tenure at the previous companies I worked for, are important aides that will help me lift of this dream to reality.

## On The Name, "Fairese"

The name, Fairese, was chosen for a few reasons. First, I just like the sound of it. Second, fantasy and medieval stories were an important part of my childhood, and the name draws direct inspiration from the word "fairies". And third, probably of lesser importance, when the word "Fairese" popped into my head, I checked to see if the domain name was available. It was, so I registered almost a decade before I actually established the company.

The logo of the company was inspired in videogames. Yep. I work in software, so liking videogames kind of comes with the territory. Specifically, the fairy, Navi, from The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, was used as a foundation to build the rest of the logo. I'm sure you can see her in the logo, probably waiting for you to get stuck somewhere so she can yell "Hey, listen!" at you. The concept of the logo was a fairy blooming out of a flower, representing the journey that took me here today, and making sure I never stop listening to the people who helped taking me here.

Thank you for taking some time to read this.

\- Andy